# Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV_Distribution
---

The ADG extrapolation model extrapolates the chromophoric dissolved organic matter (CDOM) absorption coefficient, a<sub>g</sub>(λ), non-algal (depigmented) particulate absorption coefficient, a<sub>d</sub>(λ), and the non-phytoplankton absorption coefficient, a<sub>dg</sub>(λ), from the visible (VIS) to the ultraviolet (UV) electromagnetic spectrum. The model utilizes inputs of a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and associated a<sub>d</sub>(λ) spectra in the VIS to extrapolate to the UV. The complete development and validation of the ADG extrapolation model is described in [Kehrli et al., 2023](https://opg.optica.org/oe/fulltext.cfm?uri=oe-31-11-17450&id=530517). This version of the ADG extrapolation model source code is in MATLAB file format.

This README document provides information about the files within the Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV_Distribution repository.

---

## Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV.m:
MATLAB function implementing the ADG extrapolation model to estimate a<sub>g</sub>(λ), a<sub>d</sub>(λ), and a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) in the near-UV from 350 to 399 nm for a given pair of a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ) spectra in the VIS. Returns output wavelength (lambda_out), a<sub>g</sub>(λ) (agout), a<sub>d</sub>(λ) (adout), and a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) (adgout). See supporting documentation for further details.

## ADG_cor_LUT.mat:
MATLAB file containing the look-up tables (LUTs) necessary to run and perform corrections in the function Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV.m. The structure contains two fields to perform the near-UV correction of a<sub>g</sub>(λ), and the near-UV bias correction of a<sub>d</sub>(λ)  described in Tables 3 and 4 of Kehrli et al., 2023. See Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV.m function documentation for further details about the .mat file.

## Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV_Test.m:
MATLAB script that executes Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV.m on 1 sample input of spectral a<sub>g</sub>(λ) and a<sub>d</sub>(λ) defined from 400 to 700 nm. The code extrapolates a<sub>g</sub>(λ), a<sub>d</sub>(λ), and a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) from 350 to 399 nm in 1 nm intervals.

## Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV_Test_Run.xls:
Microsoft Excel spreadsheet containing the input and resulting output data obtained from the application of the Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV.m on one sample input to determine a<sub>g</sub>(λ). a<sub>d</sub>(λ) and a<sub>dg</sub>(λ) in the near-UV. The file is the original output file generated by Extrapolate_ADG_VIStoUV_Test.m. 

---

Contributors: Matthew Kehrli, Dariusz Stramski, Rick A. Reynolds, and Ishan Joshi\
Contacts: Matthew Kehrli (mdkehrli@ucsd.edu | mdkehrli@gmail.com), Dariusz Stramski (dstramski@ucsd.edu), Rick Reynolds(rreynolds@ucsd.edu), Ishan Joshi(isjoshi@ucsd.edu)\
Ocean Optics Research Laboratory, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego

---
